                                                   H ETEROGENEOUS G RAPH ATTENTION N ETWORKS FOR
                                                          L EARNING D IVERSE C OMMUNICATION


                                               Esmaeil Seraj1,∗ , Zheyuan Wang1,∗ , Rohan Paleja1,∗ , Matthew Sklar1 , Anirudh Patel2 , Matthew Gombolay1
                                                1
                                                  Institute for Robotics & Intelligent Machines, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA, 30332–0250
                                                                           2
                                                                             Sandia National Laboratory, Albuquerque, NM, USA, 87185




arXiv:2108.09568v2 [cs.MA] 28 Oct 2021
                                                                                  ∗
                                                                                    These authors contributed equally to this work.
                                             {eseraj3, pjohnwang, rpaleja3, msklar3}@gatech.edu, matthew.gombolay@cc.gatech.edu
                                                                                             anipate@sandia.gov




                                                                                              A BSTRACT
                                                   Multi-agent teaming achieves better performance when there is communication among participating
                                                   agents allowing them to coordinate their actions for maximizing shared utility. However, when
                                                   collaborating a team of agents with different action and observation spaces, information sharing is
                                                   not straightforward and requires customized communication protocols, depending on sender and
                                                   receiver types. Without properly modeling such heterogeneity in agents, communication becomes
                                                   less helpful and could even deteriorate the multi-agent cooperation performance. We propose
                                                   heterogeneous graph attention networks, called HetNet, to learn efficient and diverse communication
                                                   models for coordinating heterogeneous agents towards accomplishing tasks that are of collaborative
                                                   nature. We propose a Multi-Agent Heterogeneous Actor-Critic (MAHAC) learning paradigm to obtain
                                                   collaborative per-class policies and effective communication protocols for composite robot teams. Our
                                                   proposed framework is evaluated against multiple baselines in a complex environment in which agents
                                                   of different types must communicate and cooperate to satisfy the objectives. Experimental results
                                                   show that HetNet outperforms the baselines in learning sophisticated multi-agent communication
                                                   protocols by achieving ∼10% improvements in performance metrics.

                                         Keywords Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning, Heterogeneous Teams, Cooperative MARL, Heterogeneous
                                         Communication, Learning to Communicate, Graph Attention Networks

                                         1     Introduction
                                         Information sharing is key in building team cognition, and enables agents to cooperate to successfully achieve shared
                                         goals [22, 28]. Not only is the communication protocol essential to developing shared mission goals, communication
                                         between agents must be targeted and efficient. High-performing human teams utilize communication, deciding when,
                                         whom, and what style to communicate in, only when it is beneficial [37]. Prior approaches that autonomously learn
                                         communication protocols have attempted to emulate similar behavior to the communication protocols used in human
                                         teams but have fallen short on assessing the heterogeneity within teams. Typical communication patterns across humans
                                         widely differ based on the responsibility or role the human assumes [35, 29].
                                         Robots exhibit a similar heterogeneity based on their role within a team. We define a heterogeneous robot team as a
                                         group of cooperative agents that are capable of performing different tasks and may have access to different sensory
                                         information from the environment in which they collaborate to accomplish a shared objective. We categorize agents
                                         with similar action and observation spaces in the same class. In such a heterogeneous setting, communicating is not
                                         straightforward as agents do not speak the same “language”; we consider scenarios in which agents have different
                                         action-spaces and observation inputs from the environment (i.e., due to different sensors) or may not even have
                                         access to any observation input (i.e., lack of sensors, broken or low-quality sensors). The dependency generated
                                         via sensor-lax or sensor-void agents on agents with strong sensing capabilities makes communication protocols for
                                         cooperation a requirement rather than an additional modeling technique for improving the performance of multi-agent
                                         coordination [29, 24, 17, 25].
                                                                                                        Esmaeil Seraj et al.


While the use of communication in MARL has become highly prevalent [6, 32, 16, 10, 45], most prior framework fail
to function in the presence of composite teams. We define a composite team as a group of heterogeneous agents that
perform different tasks according to their respective capabilities while their tasks are co-dependent on accomplishing
an overarching mission. Examples of such composite teams include the service-agent transport problem [3] and
perception-action teams [2, 27]. In the latter example, perception agents (with only sensing capabilities) and action
agents (with additional actuation capabilities) must collaborate to accomplish a task [2, 27, 1, 12]. As such, agents
in a composite team can inherently have different state and action spaces and yet, must still communicate essential
information with each other. None of the existing prior multi-agent communication learning frameworks are designed to
explicitly model such heterogeneity in a robot team. Without a proper strategy to handle heterogeneous communications,
agents of different classes may not be able to differentiate the heterogeneity in the globally sent and received massages
and extract valuable information for decision making. Therefore, communication may become unhelpful, and could
even deteriorate the MARL performance [46].
Inspired by heterogeneous communication patterns across humans, we design an end-to-end communication learning
model based on Heterogeneous Graph Attention Networks (HetGAT) and build a communication channel to account for
the heterogeneity of agents by “translating” the inter-class messages into a shared language. We integrate HetGAT layers
to build our multi-agent heterogeneous communication policy network, HetNet, to enable multi-agent communication
across agents with different roles and capabilities. As such, HetNet resolves the language barrier across heterogeneous
agents and allows for a stylized encoding and decoding of state information. Furthermore, we design our communication
protocol, HetNet, with the rationale of Centralized Training and Distributed Execution (CTDE) [9, 26] to learn efficient,
end-to-end communication models for multi-robot environments with heterogeneous agents. We propose Multi-Agent
Heterogeneous Actor-Critic (MAHAC) to learn from scratch, a scalable and efficient yet effective communication
protocol under Multi-Agent Heterogeneous Partially Observable (MAH-POMDP) environments.
Contributions – The primary contributions of our work are:

      1. Formulating a new problem setup, termed as Multi-Agent Heterogeneous Partially Observable Markov Decision
         Process (MAH-POMDP) to model a generic MARL framework for learning heterogeneous communication
         protocols for different classes of agents (of different types and capabilities). We develop a novel on-policy
         Actor-Critic (AC) algorithm, Multi-Agent Heterogeneous Actor-Critic (MAHAC), to learn class-wise policies
         for agents to enable collaborative decision-making and multi-agent cooperation.
      2. Designing a limited-length communication channel to generate real-valued messages embedded in Graph
         Neural Network (GNN) architectures, resulting in an efficient and scalable communication model.
      3. Proposing and evaluating several MAHAC architectures to study and investigate the utility of fully-centralized
         critic (i.e., one critic signal for all agents of all classes), per-class critics (i.e., one critic signal per class
         of agents) or per-agent critics (i.e., individual critic signals for each agent) to learn class-wise policies for
         enabling heterogeneous communication and coordination.
      4. Evaluating our framework in a complex multi-agent heterogeneous environment (referred to as the Predator-
         Capture domain) in which, a composite team of agents (predators) must communicate and collaborate to
         capture hidden targets (preys). In this domain, collaboration is required to satisfy the mission.

2   Related Work
There has been large success in generating high-performing cooperative teams using MARL in challenging problems
such as game playing [4, 23, 21] and robotics [33]. Recently, the use of communication in MARL has become highly
prevalent as agents can share important information to greatly improve team performance [6, 32, 16, 10, 45]. In this
section, we discuss the body of relevant literature, including communication learning in MARL, application of GNNs
in MARL and, heterogeneous multi-agent systems.
MARL with Communication – Communication has been shown to further enhance the collective intelligence of
learning agents in cooperative MARL problems [31]. In recent years, several studies have been concerned with the
problem of learning communication protocols and languages to use among agents. Here, we explore those bearing
the closest resemblance to our work. Differentiable Inter-Agent Learning (DIAL) [7] and CommNet [32], two of
the earliest works in learning communication in MARL, displayed the capability to learn a discrete and continuous
communication vectors, respectively. While DIAL considers the limited-bandwidth problem for communication,
neither these approaches are readily applicable to composite teams or capable of performing attentional communication.
TarMAC [6] on the other hand achieves targeted communication through an attention mechanism which greatly improves
performance compared to prior work. Nevertheless, TarMAC requires high-bandwidth message passing channels and
its architecture is reported to perform poorly in capturing the topology of interaction [16]. SchedNet [13] is another


                                                             2
HetNet: Learning Multi-agent Heterogeneous Communication


more recent work that explicitly addresses the bandwidth-related concerns. However, in SchedNet agents learn how
to schedule themselves for accessing the communication channel, rather than learning the communication protocols
from scratch. In our approach, we explicitly address the heterogeneous communication problem where agents learn
diverse communication protocols and languages to use among themselves for cooperation. Our model enables agents
to perform attentional communication and sending limited-length messages through class-specific communication
channels, addressing the limited-bandwidth issues.
MARL with Graph Neural Networks – Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) are a class of deep neural networks that
learn from unstructured data by representing objects as nodes and relations as edges and aggregating information from
nearby nodes [42, 43, 11]. MARL has utilized GNNs to model a communication structure among agents. Deep graph
network [11] represents dynamic multi-agent interaction as a graph convolution to learn cooperative behaviors. This
seminal work in utilizing graphs for MARL demonstrates that utilizing a graph based representation substantially
improves performance in multi-agent cooperation. In [30], an effective communication topology is proposed by
using hierarchical graph neural network to propagate messages among groups and agents. G2ANet [16] proposed a
game abstraction method combining a hard and a soft-attention mechanism to dynamically learn interactions between
agents. More recently, MAGIC [18] introduced as a scalable, attentional communication model to determine when to
communicate and how to process messages, through graph attention networks and learning a scheduler. While prior
work in using GNNs in MARL have successfully modeled multi-agent interactions, the mentioned frameworks are not
designed to address heterogeneous robot teams. Our proposed framework on the other hand, learns an efficient shared
language across agents with different action and observation spaces.
Heterogeneity in Multi-agent Systems – Multi-agent communication is fundamental in composite teams, especially
in the case where some agents are vision-limited. In [5], several types of heterogeneity induced by agents of different
capabilities are presented and discussed. Heterogeneity of agents in a team, makes it excessively challenging to
hand-design communication protocols [5]. In [44], a control scheme is designed for a heterogeneous multi-agent
system by modeling the interaction as a leader-follower system. While this approach is successfully applied to a
UAV-UGV team, the control scheme is hand-designed and requires a fully connected communication structure. More
recently, HMAGQ-Net [17] utilized GNNs and Deep Deterministic Q-network (DDQN) to enable communication and
cooperation among heterogeneous teams including agents with different state and action spaces. In HetNet, we build our
model based on actor-critic framework and consider all state-space, action-space and observation-space heterogeneities.
Moreover, we propose and assess several MAHAC architectures, investigating the utility of learning fully-centralized,
per-class or per-agent critics. Our framework, HetNet, can be applied to other composite teams and simultaneously
learns a communication strategy and policy.


3     Problem Statement and Setup

3.1   Problem Formulation

Founding on a standard Partially Observable MDP (POMDP), we formulate a new problem setup
termed as Multi-Agent Heterogeneous POMDP (MAH-POMDP), which can be represented by a 9-tuple
hC, N , {S i }i∈C , {Ai }i∈C , {Ωi }i∈C , {Oi }i∈C , r, T , γi. C is set of all available
                                                                                    P agent classes in the composite robot
team and the index i ∈ C shows which class does an agent belong to. N = hi∈Ci Ni is the total number of interacting
agents in the environment in which Ni represents the number of agents in each class. State space {S i }i∈C is a discrete
set of joint states and can be factored as {S i }i∈C = S̄ × S e where S e denotes the environmental states and S̄ = ×i S (i)
is the joint state space of all agent classes. We note that, an agent’s state-space      h icontent (e.g., the number of state
                                                                   (i)            (i)     i                 i
variables) is determined by its class. As such, for each S we have S = stj ∈ S̄ where stj represents states
of agent j of the i-th class, at time t. Action space, {A}i∈C , is a discrete set of joint actions, which can be
                                                                                                              h factored
                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                    i
as {A}i∈C = ×i A(i) , where A(i) is the action space for agents of class i. For each A(i) we have A(i) = atj ∈ A,
forming the vector of joint actions. {Ω}i∈C is the class-specific observation-space, and γ ∈ [0, 1) is the temporal
discount factor for each unit of time. We emphasise that in our MAH-POMDP, the class of an agent determines the
content of its state, action and observation spaces, such as the number of or the type of variables in these spaces.
At each time-step, t, and depending on if the environment observation input is enabled for class i, each agent, j,
                                                       i
of the i-th class can receive a partial observation otj ∈ Ω according to some class-specific observation function
             i
{Oi }i∈C : otj ∼ Oi (·|s̄). If the environment observation is not available for agents of class i, agents in the respective
class do not have access to the environmental state space, S e , and thus, will not receive any input from the environment.
Regardless of receiving an observation from the environment or not, at each time-step, t, each agent, j, of the i-th


                                                              3
                                                                                                              Esmaeil Seraj et al.

                                                                                                         
                        i                                                                               i
class takes an action, atj , forming a joint action vector ā = a1t 1 , a1t 2 , · · · , ait1 , · · · , atj ∈ A. When agents take the
joint action ā, in the joint state s̄ and depending on the next joint-state, they receive an immediate reward, r(s̄, ā) ∈ R,
shared by all agents, regardless of their classes. Such shared reward, encourages collaboration and teaming behaviour
among agents [13]. This step leads to changing the joint states to s̄0 ∈ S according to the state transition probability
density function T (s̄0 |s̄, ā). Our objective is to learn an optimal policy π ∗ (s̄) : S → A, that solves the MAH-POMDP
by maximizing the total expected, discounted reward accumulated by agents over an infinite horizon, as in Equation 1.
                                                                    "∞                   #
                                                                     X
                                            ∗                              k
                                           π (s̄) = arg max Eπ(s̄)       γ rt+k |π(s̄)                                     (1)
                                                    π(s̄)∈Π             k=0


3.2   Actor-Critic (AC)

In Actor-Critic (AC) methods, the policy of an agent π j is parametrized by θ, represented by πθj (s). In AC, an agent’s
goal is to maximize the total expected return by applying gradient ascent and directly adjusting the parameters of its
policy, πθj (s), through an actor network. The actor, updates the policy distribution in the direction suggested by a critic,
which in some cases estimates the action-value function Qw (s, a) [36]. For the single-agent case and by the policy
gradient theorem [34], the expected reward maximization (the AC objective), J(θ), is maximized via Equation 2, in
which ajt , ojt and sjt are the action, observation and state of agent j respectively, and set shows the environment state at
time t.                                               h                                        i
                                      ∇θ J(θ) = Eπj ∇θ log πθj (ajt |ojt )Qw (sjt , set , ajt )                           (2)
                                                     θ



We note that in Equation 2, the observation input, ojt , may not be available for an agent depending on the agent’s class.
For instance, in a perception-action composite robot team1 , the action agents are not capable of sensing the environment
and thus the observation input will not appear within the action agent’s policy network. Such an agent takes actions
only based on the critic signal and the communication messages, mkt , received from its neighboring agents. Due to
such dependency and heterogeneity in our problem setting, we design an actor-critic algorithm for our multi-agent
heterogeneous scenario. We refer to this as Multi-agent Heterogeneous Actor-Critic (MAHAC). MAHAC, which is
introduced in Equation 9 (Section 6). MAHAC enables learning coordination policies (i.e., centralized, class-wise, or
agent-wise) for heterogeneous agents of a composite team with different capabilities.

3.3   Graph Neural Networks

GNNs capture the structural dependency among nodes of a graph via message-passing between the nodes, in which
each node aggregates feature vectors of its neighbors to compute a new feature vector. The commonly used feature
update procedure via graph convolution operator is shown in Equation 3, where h̄0j is the updated feature vector for
node j, σ(.) is the activation function and, ω represents the learnable weights.
                                                                          
                                                           X 1
                                               h̄0j = σ             ω h̄k                                      (3)
                                                                 cjk
                                                              k∈N (j)

In Equation 3, k ∈ N (j) includes the immediate neighbors of node j where k is the indexp        of neighbor, and cjk is
the normalization term which depends on the graph structure. A common choice of cjk is |N (j)N (k)|. After L
layers of aggregation, a node i’s representation captures the structural information within the nodes that are reachable
from i in L hops or fewer. However, the fact that cjk is structure-dependent can hurt generalizability of GNN on
varying graph sizes. Accordingly, a direct improvement over Equation 3 is to replace cjk with attention coefficients,
αjk , computed via Equation 4. In Equation 4, ā is the learnable weight, k represents concatenation, and σ 0 (.) is the
LeakyReLU nonlinearity. The Softmax function is used to normalize the coefficients across all neighbors k, enabling
feature dependent and structure free normalization [38].
                                        αjk = softmaxk σ 0 āT ω h̄j k ω h̄k
                                                                             
                                                                                                                     (4)

Heterogeneous GNNs, which directly operate on heterogeneous graphs containing different types of nodes and edges,
can learn per-edge-type message passing and per-node-type feature reduction mechanisms. Compared to homogeneous
   1
     Perception-Action composite teams are composed of two classes of agents: (1) Perception agents that can only sense the
environment and, (2) Action agents that can take specific action but cannot sense. See [27] for examples of such heterogeneous teams
and their applicability in real-world problem.


                                                                 4
HetNet: Learning Multi-agent Heterogeneous Communication




Figure 1: Overview of our multi-agent heterogeneous attentional communication architecture. At each time point t = t0 , each
agent j of class i generates a local embedding from its own inputs, by passing its input data through class-specific preprocessing
(i.e., a convolutional or a fully connected network) and LSTM units. Each agent then sends the embedding to a class-specific
communication channel to send and receives a message, mkj    t , from its local neighbors k. The message information is leveraged by
the receiving agent to compute the action probabilities as its policy output.


GNNs, heterogeneous GNNs have shown good interpretability and model expressiveness [40, 41]. However, such
a model has never been applied to MARL problems, and to the best of authors’ knowledge, this is the first attempt
to leverage heterogeneous GNNs for end-to-end learning of diverse communication protocols in a heterogeneous
multi-robot team.
In a heterogeneous setting, where agents have different action-spaces, communicating is not straightforward, as agents
do not speak the same “language.” In the following sections, we design a heterogeneous communication learning
structure based on Graph Attention Networks (GAT) and build an encoder-decoder communication channel to account
for the heterogeneity of our agents by “translating” the inter-agent messages into a shared language.



4    Communication Problem and Overview

Common multi-agent coordination problems are centered around two ideas: (1) fostering direct communication among
interacting agents [7, 32, 13] or, (2) coordinating agents’ actions for cooperation without direct communication [8, 15,
19]. In this work, we are concerned with the former. We consider MARL problems wherein multiple agents interact in a
single environment to accomplish a task which is of a cooperative nature. We are particularly interested in scenarios in
which the agents are heterogeneous in their capabilities, meaning agents can have different state, action and observation
spaces, forming a composite team. To collaborate effectively, agents must share messages that express their observations
and experiences under a CTDE paradigm [9, 13].
An overview of our multi-agent heterogeneous attentional communication architecture is shown in Figure 1. In learning
an end-to-end communication model, we take a series of problems and constraints into consideration: (1) heterogeneous
communication, where agents of different classes have different action and observation spaces, resulting in different
interpretations of sent-received messages. (2) Attentional and scalable communication protocols such that agents
incorporate attention coefficients depending on the agent/class they are communicating with for coordinating with
teammates in any arbitrary team sizes.


                                                                 5
                                                                                                          Esmaeil Seraj et al.


5     HetNet for Learning Multi-agent Heterogeneous Communication

GNNs previously used in MARL operate on homogeneous graphs to learn a universal feature update and communication
scheme for all agents, which fails to explicitly model the heterogeneity among agents in our case. We instead cast
the MARL problem into a heterogeneous graph structure, and propose a novel heterogeneous graph attention network
capable of learning diverse communication strategies based on agent classes. In this section, we first describe how to
construct the heterogeneous graph given a problem state. Then, we present the building block layer, which we refer
to as heterogeneous graph attention (HetGAT) layer, used to assemble our heterogeneous policy network (HetNet) of
arbitrary depth (Section 5.3).


5.1   Heterogeneous Graphs for Composite Multi-Agent Teams

Compared to homogeneous graphs, a heterogeneous graph can have nodes and edges of different types. Such different
types of nodes and edges tend to have different types of attributes that are designed to capture the characteristics of
each node and edge. This advantage greatly increases a graph’s expressivity and enables straightforward modeling of
complicated multi-agent teams, such as our composite robot teams [27].
Given our MAH-POMDP formulation discussed in Section 3.1, we directly model each agent class in C as a unique node
type. This allows agents to have different types of state-space content, S (i) , as input features according to their classes,
i ∈ C, as well as enabling different types of action spaces, A(i) . For instance, in our perception-action composite
team example in Section 3.2, the input features of perception agents contain their sensor input image and the state
vector, while action agents input only contains their state vector. Communication channel between agents is modeled as
directed edges connecting the corresponding agent nodes. When two agents move to a close proximity of each other
such that they fall within the communication range, bidirectional edges are added to allow message passing between
them. We use different edge types to model different combinations of the sender agent’s class and the receiver agent’s
class to allow for learning heterogeneous communication protocols.
When training the policy network constructed through stacking several HetGAT layers, we leverage our extended
MAHAC (introduced in Section 6.1) to learn class-wise agent policies. To enable Centralized Training and Distributed
Execution, we add a State Summary Node (SSN) into the graph and develop novel architectures to learn a centralized
critic network, per-class critics or, per-agent critic signals. We introduce and investigate these architectures in Section 6.2.
Depending on the selected HetNet critic architecture, the SSN forms a one-way connection to the agent nodes (directed
from an agent to the SSN) to receive messages from them during training phase. The initial input features to the SSN
are hyper-parameter information of the environment, such as the total number of agents, N , world size, current time
step, etc. The SSN’s learned embeddings are used as input of a critic network consisting of one fully-connected layer
for state-dependant value estimation. We note that, since there are no edges pointing from the SSN to any agent nodes,
during the execution phase, the SSN can be safely removed without affecting an agent’s own policy output, which
complies with our underlying CTDE paradigm.


5.2   HetGAT Layer with Heterogeneous Communication Channel

The feature update process in a HetGAT layer is conducted in two steps: per-edge-type message passing followed by
per-node-type feature reduction. When modeling multi-agent teams, we reformulate the computation process into two
phases: a sender phase and a receiver phase. For notation simplicity and without loosing generality, we demonstrate
these phases through an example of a composite robot team with two classes of agents, C = {P, A} (e.g., see [27]).
Figure 2 shows the computation flow during the sender and receiver phases with P agent node as an example.
During the sender phase, the agent of class P ∈ C (referred to as P agent), indexed by j, processes its input feature, hj ,
                                                0
using a class-specific weight matrix, ωP ∈ Rd ×d , where d is the input feature dimension, and d0 is the output feature
                                                                                                                  00
dimension. Meanwhile, each type of communication channel uses a distinct weight matrix, ωedgeT ype ∈ Rd ×d , to
                    P toA
process hj (e.g., ω       , denoting communication edge type from P agents to A agents), and sends the computation
results to the mailbox of the destination node, Ndst . Here, d00 is the output feature dimension of Ndst .
During the receiver phase, for each type of the communication edge that an agent is connected to, the HetGAT layer
computes per-edge-type aggregation result by weighing received messages, stored in its mailbox, along the same edge
type with normalized attention coefficients, αedgeT ype . The aggregation results are then merged with the agent’s own


                                                               6
HetNet: Learning Multi-agent Heterogeneous Communication




Figure 2: The sender and receiver phases of the feature update process in a HetGAT layer, using C = {P, A} as a composite team
and the P agent node in this team as an example.

transformed embedding, ωP hj , to compute the output feature. As a results, the feature update formula for P agents can
be shown as in Equation 5 where NP (j) and NA (j) include agent j’s neighbors that are of class P and A, respectively.
                                              X                            X                      
                   Class P h̄0j = σ ωP h̄j +           P toP
                                                      αjk    ωP toP h̄k +           AtoP
                                                                                   αjl   ωAtoP h̄l                  (5)
                                                 k∈NP (j)                     l∈NA (j)

Note that, when computing attention coefficients in a heterogeneous graph, we adapt Equation 4 into Equation 6 to
account for heterogeneous communication channels.
                              edgeT ype
                                        = softmaxk σ 0 āT ωP h̄j k ωedgeT ype h̄k
                                                                                  
                            αjk                                                                               (6)
A similar computation process applies for A agents, with the update formula shown in Equation 7.
                                              X                          X                    
                   Class A h̄0j = σ ωA h̄j +           P toA
                                                     αjk     ωP toA h̄k +       AtoA
                                                                               αjl   ωAtoA h̄l                            (7)
                                                 k∈NP (j)                     l∈NA (j)

As discussed in Section 5.1, we add an SSN to the graph during centralized training with a state-dependent critic
network. The feature update formula of SSN is shown in Equation 8. Here, feature vectors from all agents are passed to
SSN after being processed with edge-specific weights, ωedgeT ype . For SSN, the attention coefficients are computed in a
similar manner as in Equation 6.
                                               X                        X                   
                         SSN h̄0s = σ ωS h̄s +        P toS
                                                    αsk     ωP toS h̄k +      AtoS
                                                                            αsl    ωAtoS h̄l                         (8)
                                                    k∈P                     l∈A
We reiterate that equations 5-8 are generally applicable to any heterogeneous robot team with arbitrary number of agent
classes and are not restricted to the P and A agents example.
Finally, to stabilize the learning process, we utilize the multi-head extension of the attention mechanism, proposed
in [38], adapting it to fit the heterogeneous teams. We use K independent HetGAT (sub-)layers to compute node
features in parallel, and then merge the results as the multi-head output by concatenation operation for each multi-head
layer in HetNet, except for the last layer which employs averaging. As a result, each type of communication channel is
split into K independent sub-channels.

5.3   Heterogeneous Policy Network (HetNet)

At each timestep, a HetGAT layer corresponds to one round of message exchange between neighboring agents and
feature update within each agent. By stacking several HetGAT layers, we construct Heterogeneous Policy Network
(HetNet) model that utilizes multi-round communication to extract high-level embeddings of each agent for decision-
making. For the last HetGAT layer in HetNet, we set each agent’s output feature dimension the same size as its


                                                              7
                                                                                                              Esmaeil Seraj et al.


action-space, specific to its class. Then, for each agent node, we add a Softmax layer on top of its output to obtain a
probability distribution that can be used for action sampling, resulting in class-wise stochastic policies. By doing so, the
computation process of each agent’s policy remains local for distributed execution, and the SSN is no longer needed
during execution/testing.
Feature Preprocessing – In HetNet, we utilize separate modules to preprocess an agent’s state vector, st , and
observation, ot (if applicable depending on the class) into o0t and s0t , respectively, before using them as input node
features. Each preprocecssing module contains one fully-connected layer followed by one Long Short-Term Memory
(LSTM) layer to enable reasoning about temporal information. Note that in the two-class perception-action composite
team example, the input feature of perception agents (P agent) node is the concatenation of o0t and s0t , while for action
agent (A agent) nodes the input feature is s0t .

6     Training and Execution
6.1   Multi-agent Heterogeneous Actor-Critic (MAHAC)

The use of heterogeneous GNNs enables us to deploy our learning framework under the CTDE paradigm. Here, we
present an Actor-Critic approach to fit our multi-agent heterogeneous scenario, Multi-agent Heterogeneous Actor-Critic
(MAHAC). Due to heterogeneity of theaction-spaces, we assign one policy to each class of agents, represented in a
joint policy vector π̄ = π 1 , π 2 , · · · ,π i ∈ {Π}|C| . We parametrize each policy in π̄ by its respective parameter from
the joint vector θ̄ = θ1 , θ2 , · · · , θi for i = 1, ..., |C| and learn one policy network per each class of agents, while
one centralized critic network “criticizes” the actions of all agents. Note that, this approach still complies with our
CTDE paradigm, since the actor network is implemented on a GNN structure. The trained GNN contains one set of
learnable weights per agent class, which due to the message-passing nature of GNN updates, can be distributed to
individual agents in the execution phase. Accordingly, in MAHAC, the policy for each class, π i , is updated by a variant
of Equation 2, shown in Equation 9. We leverage an on-policy training paradigm for MAHAC.
                                        Ni X  T                                  T
                                                                                                       !       !
                                   1   X                    
                                                               i     i
                                                                               X     0
                   ∇θi J(θi ) =                  ∇ i log π i ātj |ōtj , mkt      γ t −t r(s̄j , āj ) − b(t)             (9)
                                  N j=1 t=1 θ                                   0
                                                                               t =t

                                                                                      i      i
In Equation 9, indices j and i refer to an agent and its class, respectively. ātj and ōtj represent the joint actions taken
                                                                                                                           i
and joint observations received by agents of class t at time t. Note that, in Equation 9, the observation input, ōtj ,
                                                                  k
may not be available for an agent, depending on its class. mt represents the input communication message received
                                                                                                        PT       0
by agents j from its neighboring agent k ∈ Nt (j), where k is the neighbors index. The term t0 =t γ t −t r(s̄j , āj )
calculates the total discounted future reward from current time-step until the end of the episode. Note that, the reward is
shared by all agents (i.e., regardless of their class) and thus, only the superscript j = 1, · · · , N appears over the joint
states and actions in r(s̄j , āj ). Moreover, b(t) is a temporal baseline function leveraged to reduce the variance of the
gradient updates in MAHAC. We utilize the value estimation via our critic network as the baseline function.

6.2   Different HetNet Architectures and Critic Choices

In this section we propose and assess several MAHAC architectures to investigate the utility and performance of: (1)
fully-centralized critic (i.e., one critic signal for all agents of all classes), (2) per-class critics (i.e., one critic signal per
class of agents) and (3) per-agent critics (i.e., individual critic signals for each agent) to learn class-wise policies for
enabling heterogeneous communication and coordination. Figure 3 illustrates different critic implementations for a
perception-action composite team consisting of two P agents and two A agents.
Figure 3a represents our suggested fully-centralized critic implementation for HetNet in which, a fully-connected layer
is stacked on top of SSN’s output feature for critic prediction. The same predicted critic value is used in the policy
gradient update for all agents of all classes (e.g., P and A in this example). The target value for training the critic output
is the average returns (i.e., discounted sum of future rewards) over all agents.
For the per-class critic implementation suggested in Figure 3b, the critic head is split into one critic head per existing
agent classes (e.g., P critic head and A critic head in this example) in order to separate the critic estimation for different
types of agents. Note that this critic split is done while the critic is still estimated based on the SSN’s output feature.
Different types of critic predictions are used in policy gradients update of the corresponding classes of agents. During
training, the target value for each class of critic output is the average returns over the same class of agents.
Figure 3c shows our suggested per-agent critic implementation for HetNet, where the critic network outputs one critic
estimation for each agent. This is achieved by concatenating the SSN’s output feature with each agent node’s output


                                                                 8
HetNet: Learning Multi-agent Heterogeneous Communication




     (a) One centralized critic              (b) Per-class critic                          (c) Per-agent critic
Figure 3: Different proposed critic implementations with a perception-action composite team consisting of two P agents and two A
agents: (a) one centralized critic, (b) per-class critics and (c) per-agent critics.

embedding to serve as the input of class-specific critic heads. The per-agent critic estimation is used for each agent’s
policy update, and its target value for training is the returns of that agent.


7   Evaluation Environments

We evaluate the utility of HetNet against several baselines in both two cooperative MARL domains that require
coordination and learning collaborative behaviors. We use a common MARL homogeneous domain and a complex
heterogeneous environment to test HetNet’s general performance and applicability.
Predator-Prey (PP) [31] – The goal in this homogeneous environment is for N predator agents with limited vision to
find a stationary prey and move to its location. The agents in this domain are homogeneous in their state, observation and
action spaces and thus, all agents are of the same class. The positions of the predator agents and the prey are initialized
randomly in the beginning of each episode. The state-space, for all agents, is a concatenated one-hot vector which
represents an agent’s own location and binary information indicating the presence of other predator agents or the prey at
each timestep. All agents are able to sense/observe the environment and each agent’s observation is a concatenated
array of the state vectors of all grids within the agent’s field-of-view (FOV). The predator agents’ action-space is of
dimension five and is the same for all agents; including actions move up, move down, move right, move left and stay.
Each predator agent receives a small penalty of −0.05 per timestep until the prey is found. An episode of the game is
labeled as successful if all predator agents find the prey and move to its location before a predefined maximum time
limit. Therefore, agents are required to communicate and coordinate their actions to win the game as fast as possible.
For our experiments, we chose the world-size and the number of predator agents to be 10 × 10 and 3, respectively. We
set the maximum steps for an episode (i.e., termination condition) to be 80. We define a better-performing algorithm in
this domain as the one that minimizes the average number of steps taken by agents to complete an episode.
Predator-Capture-Prey (PCP) – In this environment, we have two classes of agents, predator agents and capture
agents. Predator agents have the goal of finding the prey. The state space of predator agents is a concatenated one-hot
vector which represents an agent’s own location and binary information indicating the presence of other predator agents,
capture agents, or the prey at each timestep. The predator agents’ action-space is of dimension five and includes the
actions: move up, move down, move right, move left, and stay. The second class of agents, the capture agents have
the goal of locating the prey and capturing it. Capture agents differ from the predator agents in both their observation
and their action spaces such that, capture agents do not receive any observation inputs from the environment (i.e.,
no scanning sensors). Moreover, capture agents have an additional action of capture prey in their action-space, such
that when they move to a prey’s location, they need to take the capture prey action to capture the prey sitting in the
corresponding grid. As such, the goal of the game is for all predator agents to find a stationary prey and for all capture
agents to find the prey and then capture it. Agents will receive a −0.05 per timestep reward until they accomplish their
per-class objective. Note that this domain is an explicit example of the perception-action composite teams [27], as
introduced in Section 3.2. Here, predator agents play the role of perception agents (P class) since they can only sense
and searching the environment for a hidden target while capture agents play the role of action agents (A type), since
they cannot sense the environment (i.e., null observation input) but instead, they need to “act" by capturing the prey
found by predator (perception) agents. All other settings in this domain are similar to the PP domain.


8   Experiment

In this section, we empirically evaluate our multi-agent heterogeneous communication learning model, HetNet, and
present its performance results in both of the introduced domains and against two other state-of-the-art, end-to-end


                                                                9
                                                                                                             Esmaeil Seraj et al.




                   (a) Homogeneous Domain (PP)                                (b) Heterogeneous Domain (PCP)
Figure 4: This figures presents the learning curves during training for HetNet, CommNet [32] and IC3Net [31] in the homogeneous
PP (left-side) and the heterogeneous PCP (right-side) domains. Curves display the average number of steps taken on a logarithmic
scale across several batches and the fewer number of steps indicates a better method. As shown, HetNet outperforms all baselines in
both the homogeneous and the heterogeneous environments.

communication learning baselines. We also present an ablation study to investigate the effects of the critic structures
proposed in Section 6.2 on HetNet’s performance.
Model Details – We implement HetNet using PyTorch [20] and Deep Graph Library [39]. The HetNet used in
training/testing is constructed by stacking three multi-head HetGAT layers on top of the feature preprocessing modules.
The first two multi-head layers use K = 4 attention heads computing 16 features each (for a total of 64 features merged
by concatenation). The final layer also uses K = 4 attention heads but the output dimension is set to the same size as
each agent’s action space and is merged by averaging. We used Adam optimizer [14] through training with a learning
rate of 10−3 for all our experiments and results presented here.

8.1   Baseline Comparison Results

We benchmark our approach against two state-of-the-art, end-to-end communication learning baselines, namely the
CommNet [32] and the IC3Net [31]. The results are presented in Figure 4. Figure 4 presents the learning curves during
training for HetNet, CommNet [32] and IC3Net [31] in the homogeneous PP (left-side) and the heterogeneous PCP
(right-side) domains. Curves are showing the average number of steps taken across several batches (± standard error)
and the fewer number of steps indicates a better method. As shown, HetNet outperforms all baselines in both the
homogeneous and the heterogeneous environments.
We also tested the learnt coordination policies by each of the baselines. Table 1 presents the average number of steps
taken for coordination policies learnt at convergence by HetNet, CommNet [32] and IC3Net [31] in the homogeneous
PP (left-side) and the heterogeneous PCP (right-side) domains. Results represent the average number of steps (±
standard error) taken by the agents to win an episode of the game in 100 trials. As shown, HetNet again outperforms all
baselines in both the homogeneous and the heterogeneous environments. The policies learnt by our model are more
efficient and are capable of solving both PP and PCP faster than the other baselines, using ∼15% less in terms of
average steps taken in PP and ∼10% less in PCP

8.2   Ablation Study: Effects of Different Critic Structures

In this section, we present an ablation study to assess different MAHAC architectures proposed in Section 6.2. Our goal
is to investigate the utility and performance of: (1) fully-centralized critic (i.e., one critic signal for all agents of all
classes), (2) per-class critics (i.e., one critic signal per class of agents) and (3) per-agent critics (i.e., individual critic
signals for each agent) to learn class-wise policies for enabling heterogeneous communication and coordination.
The results of our critic structure ablation study are presented in Figure 5. Figure 5 presents the learning curves (left-side)
during training for centralized, per-class and per-agent critic architectures (shown in Figure 3) in the heterogeneous
PCP domain. Curves are showing the average number of steps taken across several batches (± standard error) for each
critic structure and once again, the fewer number of steps indicates a better approach. Moreover, the test results for
policies learnt by each of the critic architectures are presented in Figure 5, right-side. This figure shows the bar-plots
representing the average number of steps taken to win the game by deploying the learnt policies through centralized,


                                                                10
HetNet: Learning Multi-agent Heterogeneous Communication



Table 1: This table presents the average number of steps taken for coordination policies learnt at convergence by HetNet, Comm-
Net [32] and IC3Net [31] in the homogeneous PP and the heterogeneous PCP domains. Values represent the average number of steps
(± standard deviation) taken by the agents to win an episode of the game in three trials with different random-seed initialization. The
bolded result in each column represents the highest-performing method. As shown, HetNet outperforms all baselines in both the
homogeneous and the heterogeneous environments.
                                       Homogeneous Domain (PP)                      Heterogeneous Domain (PCP)
                   Method
                                         Avg.        Avg. Steps                        Avg.         Avg. Steps
                                     Cumulative R      Taken                       Cumulative R       Taken
                                        -0.33           9.53                          -0.40           11.03
                CommNet [32]
                                        ± 0.01        ± 0.05                         ± 0.01           ± 0.08
                                        -0.33           9.43                          -0.40           11.23
                 IC3Net [31]
                                         ± 0.         ± 0.12                         ± 0.02           ± 0.63
                                        -0.30           8.10                          -0.38           10.01
                    HetNet
                                        ± 0.03        ± 0.35                         ± 0.01           ± 0.39




              (a) Training Performance across 2000 Epochs.                        (b) Policy Performance at Convergence.
Figure 5: This figures presents the learning curves (left-side) during training for centralized, per-class and per-agent critic architectures
(shown in Figure 3) in the heterogeneous PCP domain. Curves are showing the average number of steps taken across several batches
(± standard error) on a logarithmic scale for each critic structure. Moreover, the test results for policies learnt by each of the critic
architectures are presented in Figure 5, right-side. This figure shows the bar-plots representing the average number of steps taken to
win the game by deploying the learnt policies through centralized, per-class and per-agent critic architectures.



per-class and per-agent critic architectures. We see HetNet with per-class critic and HetNet with a per-agent critic have
similar performance, both having better performance than fully-centralized HetNet, decreasing the number of steps
of episode completion by 0.20 (10.01 → 9.81). The performance benefit can be attributed due to the ability to utilize
individual rewards to some degree. Further investigation on these two variants is worthwhile and we leave it as a future
direction.


9    Conclusion and Future Work

We are motivated by the problem of learning communication protocols among collaborating agents of a team that are
of different types (e.g., class) and can have different state, observation and action spaces (i.e., heterogeneous agents).
Without properly modeling such heterogeneity, communication can be detrimental since the agents do not “speak" the
same language (i.e., have different action spaces). We formulate our new problem as a Multi-Agent Heterogeneous
Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (MAH-POMDP) and propose heterogeneous graph attention networks,
called HetNet, to learn efficient and diverse communication models for coordinating agents towards accomplishing
tasks that are of collaborative nature. Specifically, we propose a Multi-Agent Heterogeneous Actor-Critic (MAHAC)
learning paradigm to obtain collaborative per-class policies and effective communication protocols for a composite team
such as perception-action robot teams [27]. We evaluate HetNet against two state-of-the-art, end-to-end communication
learning baselines, namely CommNet [32] and IC3Net [31] in both an adopted homogeneous environment (e.g., the
Predator-Prey [31]) and a heterogeneous environment (e.g., the Predator-Capture-Prey). Our results validate the utility


                                                                    11
                                                                                                  Esmaeil Seraj et al.


of HetNet in learning heterogeneous communication protocols for composite robot teams by demonstrating general
applicability and higher performance than the baselines in both homogeneous and heterogeneous environments.
In future work, we intend to stabilize the critic structures for further performance gain and better robustness and to
extend HetNet’s utility to other multi-agent, heterogeneous domains with composite teams and collaborative tasks. We
also intend to compare HetNet against more baselines including DIAL [7], TarMAC [6] and MAGIC [18]. Finally, we
plan to design and incorporate class-specific encoder-decoder networks to the communication channel in HetNet to
enable learning a shared “language" among heterogeneous agents of a team.

Acknowledgments
Supported by the Laboratory Directed Research and Development program at Sandia National Laboratories, a multimis-
sion laboratory managed and operated by National Technology and Engineering Solutions of Sandia LLC, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Honeywell International Inc. for the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security
Administration under contract DE-NA0003525. This paper describes objective technical results and analysis. Any
subjective views or opinions that might be expressed in the paper do not necessarily represent the views of the U.S.
Department of Energy or the United States Government.

References
 [1] Kemal Akkaya, Aravind Thimmapuram, Fatih Senel, and Suleyman Uludag. Distributed recovery of actor failures
     in wireless sensor and actor networks. In 2008 IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference,
     pages 2480–2485. IEEE, 2008.
 [2] Ian F Akyildiz and Ismail H Kasimoglu. Wireless sensor and actor networks: research challenges. Ad hoc
     networks, 2(4):351–367, 2004.
 [3] Matthew J Bays and Thomas A Wettergren. A solution to the service agent transport problem. In 2015 IEEE/RSJ
     International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 6443–6450. IEEE, 2015.
 [4] Christopher Berner, Greg Brockman, Brooke Chan, Vicki Cheung, Przemysław D˛ebiak, Christy Dennison, David
     Farhi, Quirin Fischer, Shariq Hashme, Chris Hesse, et al. Dota 2 with large scale deep reinforcement learning.
     arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.06680, 2019.
 [5] Maricela Bravo, José A. Reyes-Ortiz, José Rodríguez, and Blanca Silva-López. Multi-agent communication
     heterogeneity. In 2015 International Conference on Computational Science and Computational Intelligence
     (CSCI), pages 583–588, 2015. doi: 10.1109/CSCI.2015.167.
 [6] Abhishek Das, Théophile Gervet, Joshua Romoff, Dhruv Batra, Devi Parikh, Mike Rabbat, and Joelle Pineau.
     Tarmac: Targeted multi-agent communication. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 1538–
     1546. PMLR, 2019.
 [7] Jakob Foerster, Ioannis Alexandros Assael, Nando de Freitas, and Shimon Whiteson. Learning to communicate
     with deep multi-agent reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 29:2137–2145,
     2016.
 [8] Jakob Foerster, Nantas Nardelli, Gregory Farquhar, Triantafyllos Afouras, Philip HS Torr, Pushmeet Kohli, and
     Shimon Whiteson. Stabilising experience replay for deep multi-agent reinforcement learning. In International
     conference on machine learning, pages 1146–1155. PMLR, 2017.
 [9] Jakob Foerster, Gregory Farquhar, Triantafyllos Afouras, Nantas Nardelli, and Shimon Whiteson. Counterfactual
     multi-agent policy gradients. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 32, 2018.
[10] Jiechuan Jiang and Zongqing Lu. Learning attentional communication for multi-agent cooperation. Advances in
     Neural Information Processing Systems, 31:7254–7264, 2018.
[11] Jiechuan Jiang, Chen Dun, Tiejun Huang, and Zongqing Lu. Graph convolutional reinforcement learning. In
     International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR), 2020.
[12] Foroozan Karimzadeh, Reza Boostani, Esmaeil Seraj, and Reza Sameni. A distributed classification procedure for
     automatic sleep stage scoring based on instantaneous electroencephalogram phase and envelope features. IEEE
     Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering, 26(2):362–370, 2017.
[13] Daewoo Kim, Sangwoo Moon, David Hostallero, Wan Ju Kang, Taeyoung Lee, Kyunghwan Son, and Yung Yi.
     Learning to schedule communication in multi-agent reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.01554,
     2019.


                                                         12
HetNet: Learning Multi-agent Heterogeneous Communication


[14] Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.6980,
     2014.
[15] Joel Z Leibo, Vinicius Zambaldi, Marc Lanctot, Janusz Marecki, and Thore Graepel. Multi-agent reinforcement
     learning in sequential social dilemmas. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference on Autonomous Agents and
     MultiAgent Systems, pages 464–473, 2017.
[16] Yong Liu, Weixun Wang, Yujing Hu, Jianye Hao, Xingguo Chen, and Yang Gao. Multi-agent game abstraction
     via graph attention neural network. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 34,
     pages 7211–7218, 2020.
[17] Douglas De Rizzo Meneghetti and Reinaldo Augusto da Costa Bianchi. Towards heterogeneous multi-agent
     reinforcement learning with graph neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.13161, 2020.
[18] Yaru Niu, Rohan Paleja, and Matthew Gombolay. Multi-agent graph-attention communication and teaming. In
     Proceedings of the 20th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems, pages 964–973,
     2021.
[19] Gregory Palmer, Karl Tuyls, Daan Bloembergen, and Rahul Savani. Lenient multi-agent deep reinforcement
     learning. In Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Autonomous Agents and MultiAgent Systems,
     pages 443–451, 2018.
[20] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor Killeen,
     Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, Alban Desmaison, Andreas Kopf, Edward Yang, Zachary
     DeVito, Martin Raison, Alykhan Tejani, Sasank Chilamkurthy, Benoit Steiner, Lu Fang, Junjie Bai, and Soumith
     Chintala. Pytorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. In H. Wallach, H. Larochelle,
     A. Beygelzimer, F. d Alché-Buc, E. Fox, and R. Garnett, editors, Advances in Neural Information Processing
     Systems 32, pages 8024–8035. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019. URL http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/
     9015-pytorch-an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.
     pdf.
[21] Peng Peng, Ying Wen, Yaodong Yang, Quan Yuan, Zhenkun Tang, Haitao Long, and Jun Wang. Multiagent
     bidirectionally-coordinated nets: Emergence of human-level coordination in learning to play starcraft combat
     games. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.10069, 2017.
[22] Eduardo Salas, Terry L Dickinson, Sharolyn A Converse, and Scott I Tannenbaum. Toward an understanding of
     team performance and training. 1992.
[23] Mikayel Samvelyan, Tabish Rashid, C. S. Witt, Gregory Farquhar, Nantas Nardelli, Tim G. J. Rudner, Chia-Man
     Hung, P. Torr, Jakob N. Foerster, and S. Whiteson. The starcraft multi-agent challenge. In International Conference
     on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, 2019.
[24] Esmaeil Seraj and Matthew Gombolay. Coordinated control of uavs for human-centered active sensing of wildfires.
     In 2020 American Control Conference (ACC), pages 1845–1852. IEEE, 2020.
[25] Esmaeil Seraj and Matthew Gombolay. Coordinated Control of UAVs for Human-Centered Active Sensing of
     Wildfires-Presentation Slides. PhD thesis, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA, 2020.
[26] Esmaeil Seraj, Andrew Silva, and Matthew Gombolay. Safe coordination of human-robot firefighting teams. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:1903.06847, 2019.
[27] Esmaeil Seraj, Xiyang Wu, and Matthew Gombolay. Firecommander: An interactive, probabilistic multi-agent
     environment for joint perception-action tasks, 2020.
[28] Esmaeil Seraj, Vahid Azimi, Chaouki Abdallah, Seth Hutchinson, and Matthew Gombolay. Adaptive leader-
     follower control for multi-robot teams with uncertain network structure. In 2021 American Control Conference
     (ACC), pages 1088–1094. IEEE, 2021.
[29] Esmaeil Seraj, Letian Chen, and Matthew C Gombolay. A hierarchical coordination framework for joint perception-
     action tasks in composite robot teams. IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2021.
[30] Junjie Sheng, Xiangfeng Wang, Bo Jin, Junchi Yan, Wenhao Li, Tsung-Hui Chang, Jun Wang, and Hongyuan Zha.
     Learning structured communication for multi-agent reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.04235,
     2020.
[31] Amanpreet Singh, Tushar Jain, and Sainbayar Sukhbaatar. Learning when to communicate at scale in multiagent
     cooperative and competitive tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.09755, 2018.
[32] Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, Rob Fergus, et al. Learning multiagent communication with backpropagation. In Advances
     in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 2244–2252, 2016.


                                                          13
                                                                                                Esmaeil Seraj et al.


[33] Chuangchuang Sun, Macheng Shen, and Jonathan P How. Scaling up multiagent reinforcement learning for
     robotic systems: Learn an adaptive sparse communication graph. In 2020 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on
     Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pages 11755–11762. IEEE, 2020.
[34] Richard S Sutton and Andrew G Barto. Reinforcement learning: An introduction. MIT press, 2018.
[35] Howard Taylor. The effects of interpersonal communication style on task performance and well being. PhD thesis,
     University of Buckingham, 2007.
[36] Gerald Tesauro. Temporal difference learning and td-gammon. Communications of the ACM, 38(3):58–68, 1995.
[37] Güliz Tokadlı and Michael C Dorneich. Interaction paradigms: From human-human teaming to human-autonomy
     teaming. In 2019 IEEE/AIAA 38th Digital Avionics Systems Conference (DASC), pages 1–8. IEEE, 2019.
[38] Petar Veličković, Guillem Cucurull, Arantxa Casanova, Adriana Romero, Pietro Liò, and Yoshua Bengio.
     Graph Attention Networks. International Conference on Learning Representations, 2018. URL https:
     //openreview.net/forum?id=rJXMpikCZ.
[39] Minjie Wang, Da Zheng, Zihao Ye, Quan Gan, Mufei Li, Xiang Song, Jinjing Zhou, Chao Ma, Lingfan Yu, Yu Gai,
     Tianjun Xiao, Tong He, George Karypis, Jinyang Li, and Zheng Zhang. Deep graph library: A graph-centric,
     highly-performant package for graph neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.01315, 2019.
[40] Xiao Wang, Houye Ji, Chuan Shi, Bai Wang, Yanfang Ye, Peng Cui, and Philip S Yu. Heterogeneous graph
     attention network. In The World Wide Web Conference, pages 2022–2032, 2019.
[41] Zheyuan Wang and Matthew Gombolay. Heterogeneous graph attention networks for scalable multi-robot
     scheduling with temporospatial constraints. In Robotics: Science and Systems, 2020.
[42] Zheyuan Wang and Matthew Gombolay. Learning scheduling policies for multi-robot coordination with graph
     attention networks. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 5(3):4509–4516, 2020.
[43] Zonghan Wu, Shirui Pan, Fengwen Chen, Guodong Long, Chengqi Zhang, and S Yu Philip. A comprehensive
     survey on graph neural networks. IEEE transactions on neural networks and learning systems, 32(1):4–24, 2020.
[44] Shixun Xiong, Qingxian Wu, and Yuhui Wang. Distributed coordination of heterogeneous multi-agent systems
     with output feedback control. In 2019 IEEE International Conference on Unmanned Systems and Artificial
     Intelligence (ICUSAI), pages 106–111. IEEE, 2019.
[45] Chongjie Zhang and Victor R Lesser. Coordinating multi-agent reinforcement learning with limited communication.
     In International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, pages 1101–1108, 2013.
[46] Sai Qian Zhang, Qi Zhang, and Jieyu Lin. Efficient communication in multi-agent reinforcement learning via
     variance based control. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 32:3235–3244, 2019.




                                                        14
